# Smart-stick-for-Blindman-assistance-system
Eyes are the one of most crucial sense organ in human body, whose loss due to a genetic disorder by birth or due to an unfortunate accident can be a major setback in anyone’s life. Although other senses and intelligence can help overcome this shortcoming the transition can be difficult. Therefore we are creating a smart sensor enabled walking stick for blind people so that they can walk confidently using a stick with increased range of detection. The incorporation of Ultrasonic Module will detect the presence of any object in the specified distance and combining its output data as the input for our piezo buzzer will create a dynamic alert system depending on the direction of the walking stick. The existing tool meant to support in walking for blind people is just a simple stick which acts as a extension, but is restricted by its fixed range and lack of alert system in case something is missed or to help others realize they are in path of a blind person which will be dealt with our smart stick along with increasing range. The implementation will be done on a stick so a way is to be designed such that the sensors along with the arduino unit can be accommodated in a compact manner. Also another issue would be to ideally place the sensor so as to reduce the amount of stick movement required to find obstacles in path. Once dealt with these issues the product will help blind people to navigate and get used to walking using a stick providing increased range and alert system.
